University Profile
Home » About » University Profile
The Quezon City University, formerly known as the Quezon City Polytechnic University, came into existence on March 1, 1994, by virtue of the City Council Ordinance No. SP-171. The institution was created to undertake skilled workers’ training in response to the manpower requirement by industry and business establishments within the city. The organization of the Polytechnic as a local government educational institution included the old Skills and Training Center. The QCP established its reputation among local government units as a show window and model technology-based institution, paving the way for its recognition by the Technical Education Skills and Development Authority (TESDA) and developing a strong alliance with the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA).

On August 20, 1997, the Polytechnic was enhanced into a University through City Council Ordinance No. SP-544, S-97. The leadership of former Quezon City Mayor Feliciano “Sonny” Belmonte saw meaningful access to higher education. Starting 2005-2006, the University has started offering degree programs. Initially, the courses are BS in Entrepreneurial Management, BS in Information Technology, and BS in Industrial Engineering. SP-1945, s. 2009, otherwise known as “An Ordinance Amending Ordinance No. SP1030, s. 2001 (or the QCPU Charter)”, passed by the Quezon City Council, grants the Quezon City Polytechnic University semi-autonomy as to its fiscal management and control over its operations, budgeting and reporting requirements. Under the Ordinance SP-2308 s. 2014, the QC Council authorizes the University to offer the Senior High School Program as mandated by the Department of Education. In July 2019, the SP-2812 s.2019 or the “Ordinance converting the Quezon City Polytechnic University to Quezon City University and enhancing its charter” was fully implemented, with Dr. Victor B. Endriga being named as the OIC President of the University.

On October 8, 2020, after the search committee for president recommended three (3) qualified applicants and nominees, the University Board of Regents appointed Dr. Theresita V. Atienza as its first elected University President with a fixed six-year term. Dr. Atienza envisions QCU to be recognized as the # 1 local university of employable graduates. For 27 years since its establishment, QCU has evolved significantly. QCU now offers degree programs in accountancy and entrepreneurship, information technology, and engineering from being a technical education provider. And soon, QCU will cater to more talented and deserving students by providing relevant undergraduate and graduate programs that meet domestic and global markets’ demands.



course offered
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT)
The goal of the program is for students to apply IT effectively in a global work environment driven by rapidly changing technology, as well as, to prepare students as professionals who can assist general users -- including individuals and organizations, in evaluating needs and solving problems through the use of information technology. Under which are three major courses: Computer Science, Computer Technology and Information Systems.



Bachelor of Science in Entrepreneurship (BSEM)

A degree in BS Entrepreneurship provides students with the necessary skills needed to identify and analyze opportunities in the market and economy and allows you to take advantage of them. The main thrust of this course is the development of efficient and socially responsible Filipino entrepreneurs. Under this program are two major courses: Enterprise Mastery in Finance and Marketing.



Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering (BSIE)

Industrial Engineering is distinguished from other engineering disciplines in its concern with problems which involve human effort and energy, production systems, economy in the use of money, materials and time. It is concerned with the best possible utilization of integrated systems of people methods, materials, machines and energy to achieve organizational goals. IE is the application of principles and methods of engineering analysis and design which contributes to the management decisionmaking process.


Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering (BSEE)
BS Electronics Engineering provides a wide range of knowledge and techniques in modern electronics engineering and offers specialization in industrial automation, computer technology, telecommunications, computer modeling and real-time control, signal processing and analysis.
https://youtu.be/oYRda7UtuhA